# SimplyAlgorithms

Project overview summary
Aiming to help beginners who have just started learning about computer science can use our website as a start point to learning a wide variety of algorithms through visualization of the algorithm with a detailed but easy to understand explanation of how it works (description also includes code snippets). Furthermore, our website includes forums where students can ask questions and a dashboard to help easily keep track of their progress / last visited topics.


Our idea is an educational web app focusing on Computer Science topics involving algorithms, and Data Structures. The web App will achieve this through visual learning, a detailed description of the algorithm, a code snippet in different languages, and links to other sources for more information. The web app will also provide quizzes/tests to help students gauge their understanding of the algorithms. A dashboard will tie all of a student's activities to an easily accessible page including notes taken / highlighted, notifications (from website or forum activity), average quiz score, etc. The website will also have forums where students can ask each other questions on topics related to computer science. 

Our main audience will be students who are interested in learning algorithms and are not familiar with it and dont know where to start. The features to be included will help students keep track of their learning progress while also keeping them engaged to continue learning more algorithms as they master the topics that will be covered in the app.

The app’s main feature will be the algorithm visualizations. Our goal is to provide users with a clear picture of what happens in real time when a given component of the algorithm runs. With this feature, students will be able to clearly comprehend the process that the algorithm has to go through to complete a certain task. To improve this feature, we will also include a slider that will allow users to adjust the speed of the animations to adapt to their liking, as well as logging every single movement that is happening in the screen - As an example, in the case of sorting we will log every swap happening in the screen under the components where the animations are happening. To better enhance the visualization of the algorithms, we intend to add colors and legends to the colors to highlight things that are happening in real time such as pointers, edges linking to nodes, etc. With all of these features we will guarantee that the users’ experience will not only be engaging but it will also be effective and to the point, to speed up the learning process.

The second feature of our website is the forums where students can ask questions relating to topics or other general questions. Just like any other forum our forum will give the ability for students to create a forum, comment under a forum, and up / down vote post or comments, and also report forums / comments for inappropriate speech. With a forum it gives us and students the freedom to quickly educate others on specific topic questions that were not covered in our algorithm description. 

A dashboard is our third feature of our web application. With a dashboard a student can keep track of the topics they visited last as well as the ability to quickly view their highlights / notes taken on that topic. Furthermore, the dashboard will show users their average quiz score and other analytics so they can track their learning progress. Lastly, the dashboard will show notifications a student may have received from the website or their forum posts. 

Our Forth feature of the web app would be the ability to annotate specific parts of text and code snippets on topics. Our goal with this feature is to facilitate users to store/save their thoughts in a place where they can conveniently retrieve the information from the dashboard or revisiting the topic page. Having it next to the parts where they think they might need more clarification or add extra comments on it was the right thing to do. Furthermore, this feature will improve students’ learning by allowing them to pin notes to important parts of the text explaining the algorithm or even the code in case they want to add extra information that they believe is valuable for their knowledge or they want to clarify or put it in their own words.

We initially thought that creating a mobile app would be the best option because everyone nowadays has a phone, however as we read through people’s comments on similar apps, we realized this idea was better suited for bigger screens and decided to switch to a website application as it will be the most convenient for students that are trying to understand such topics. Also, a mobile application would have limited our ability to show algorithm visualization properly. 



